This project is designed to augment the gapminder [worldview upgrader](https://upgrader.gapminder.org/) tool that MDS students were introduced to at the beginning of the program. [Gapminder](https://www.gapminder.org/) is an NGO founded to address systematic misconceptions about global development. Our team has implemented an interactive dashboard inspired by the quiz-like structure of the worldview upgrader in Python, and implemented a similar dashboard information-wise in R, but without the quiz-like functionality. The front-end of the dashboard consists of four “cards” which contain one question each based on some aspect of the [Gapminder dataset](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/gapminder/README.html). The user gets feedback on their answers to the question and is then encouraged to explore a chart on the back of the card which supports the answer and allows the user to further extend their knowledge if they are interested.

In previous milestones in the project, we were mostly focused on ensuring that the structure of the dashboard was working correctly, but some of the quiz components were a bit unclear or needed refining. This was reflected in some of our peer feedback, which noted that there were some inconsistencies between the questions asked and the content in the supporting charts. The questions have been refined so that they are more consistent with the chart content, being more specific and referencing the proper units of the data. Moreover, in one case we found that the gapminder data we had been using was not consistent with our intuition of what the answer should be in the bottom right plot. We ended up investigating and using a seperate [Gapminder dataset](https://www.gapminder.org/data/documentation/gd001/) for this plot which seemed better maintained and had a more intuitive result for our plot. This suggested to us that perhaps in future iterations of the project we should be validating all sources of our data with alternate sources to make sure that our underlying data is as accurate as possible.

In this iteration of the dashboard, we have refined the look of the dashboard with better css and included some further dynamic elements to improve the quiz experience such as sparkling effects on clicks, and a "back" button for card flips. This results in a more polished experience for the user of the dashboard. One issue that we found with regards to this user experience is that the underlying code framework for dash-R was quite limited in comparison to the Python version. We were unable to replicate the quiz-like user functionality of the dashboard in R in the same way as python due to the limitations of the framework, but the charting elements were replicated successfully.

Overall it has been fairly easy to develop our app. One piece of experience that our group has gleaned is that it is difficult to control and anticipate the effect of a large variability of development frameworks and user environments. In addition to the functionality differences in the R frameworks, we were surprised when some of the bug feedback we received ended up being specific to the Firefox browser.